# Getting Started

Let's get started! We'll start by installing all the prerequisites then dive
into the fundamental pieces of Overengineered.

We want to ensure rapid development and minimize setup times for your
development environment and tools. We accomplish this by utilizing Docker and
in the future will provide a web based environment. We will go into more detail
in the following chapters, but for now know, Our image has Ubuntu as the base
image. Also comes with all the tools preinstalled to follow along with the
Overengineered book(s).

## Installing Docker

### Ubuntu and Debian based Operating Systems including Raspberry Pi

You can find install instructions for ubuntu at
[docs.docker.com](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/). To make
this process even easier We've created a convenience script to get you set up
with Docker quickly. Go ahead and copy paste this into your terminal.

```rust,ignore
wget -O - https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OverengineeredOne/easy-docker-setup/main/debian.sh | bash
```

If you find any issues with the script, please, fill out an issue on
[github](https://github.com/OverengineeredOne/easy-docker-setup)

#### Set up Overengineered

Everything's shiny captain, a development environment doesn't exist yet. If you
read ahead you can find instructions to build it from the source.

### Mac Os X

### Windows

**Note**: Will likely provide instructions for a VM using hypervisor.

## Building from source

Since the entire development environment is a container image, we can download
the Dockerfile from github and build it our selves.

For this we'll need to make sure we have git installed.

```rust,ignore
apt install git-all
```

Next clone the repository and navigate into the new directory.

```rust,ignore
git clone https://github.com/OverengineeredOne/oedev.git && cd oedev
```

Finally just build the image! This part may take some time.

```rust,ignore
docker build -t oedev .
```
