# Development Environment

Overengineered has a very opinionated full stack environment. To make the
installation of all the dependencies and tools hassle free, we created a Docker
image that has all of these prepackaged for convenience.

If you are not familiar with Docker, it is a quick and secure way to package
applications consistently that just work. Docker is similar to a virtual
operating system were it only shares the kernel with the underlying host system.
It provides a declarative interface to compose images and can be published onto
repositories.

Once the images are created, they can be cold started extremely quickly which
is what we want.

## Launching the environment

Once Docker is installed and the image is built. You can start the container
and we can then connect to it with `ssh`.

```rust,ignore
docker run -dit oedev
```

In this case the `d` flag is indicating that we want run the container in the
background. The `i` will ensure it remains up and interactive and `t` allocates
a TTY.

After the command is run the Docker container should boot up quickly. We can
use the container list command to make sure it's running.

```rust,ignore
docker container ls

CONTAINER ID   IMAGE    COMMAND    ...
5be838af39c     oedev    "/bin/sh -c 'service..." ...
```

Now you should see the `oedev` image running. We already have a user account
set up for us, let's log in with that. By default the ip address of the
container will be `172.17.0.2`. If you already have containers running this may
be different. See below if you are having issues.

```rust,ignore
ssh oe@172.17.0.2
```

Once prompted for the password enter "password". We'll change this default
password later.

### Finding the IP address

If you already have Docker containers running, you may have to find the correct
address. We can use `docker inspect` to search for the IP address. Making sure
we replace `<CONTAINER_ID>` with the id from the `docker container ls` we ran
earlier.

```rust,ignore
docker inspect -f "{{ .NetworkSettings.IPAddress }}" <CONTAINER_ID>
```

This should output the IP address and we can use `ssh` to try connecting again.

### Killing the Container

Let's go ahead and shut the docker container down, there is some setup we must
complete first. Run the following command replacing `<CONTAINER ID>` with
the Container ID we found earlier with the `ls` command. In our case
"8ab60e77c9e5".

```rust,ignore
docker container kill <CONTAINER ID>
```

## Setting up

The way we created the container will allow it to run in the background and you
can connect to it anytime you want to start development. However if it ever
gets shutdown you will lose all unsaved work.

We need to tell Docker to mount a volume on the host machine and we can use
this as our home directory in the container.

### Creating A Persistent Volume

First let's create a new folder on the host machine. I'll be using
`/home/<username>/oedev_share`.

```rust,ignore
mkdir ~/oedev_share
```

We can touch a file in that directory to make sure it works.

```rust,ignore
touch ~/oedev_share/test
```

Now we can run the image, this time mounting that directory.

```rust,ignore
docker run -dit --mount src='/home/<username>/oedev_share',target='/home/oe',\
  type=bind oedev
```

Just ssh in like we have before and you should see the `test` file in the
current directory.

### Setting a Password

Let's go ahead and change the default password now. `passwd` is an interactive
prompt that will help us with the change. It will ask for the current password,
new password, and have you confirm it.

```rust,ignore
passwd
```

### Github CLI (gh)

The Github CLI is already shipped with the Docker image. Let's start by logging
in. This process is simple, we just need to run one command. But first let's
grab a personal access token. Instructions can be found at the
[github docs](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token).

To make this easier we've include the instructions here.

- In the upper-right corner of any Github page, click on your `profile photo`
  and `settings`.
- In the left navigation bar click on `Developer settings`.
- Then in the left panel click `Personal access tokens`.
- Select the correct scope. You'll likely want repo, and read:org.
- Click `Generate new token`.
- Fill out the details and click `generate`.
- Make sure you copy the token.

Now create a new file in the root of your home directory called `ghtoken.txt`
with the contents of the copied token. Replace `<your_token>` with the token
file we created in the previous step.

```bash,ignore
echo <your_token> > ~/ghtoken.txt
```

Now we can use it to login with the Github Command Line Interface.

```bash,ignore
gh auth login --with-token < ~/ghtoken.txt
```

**Note:** This step will have to be done each time the container is restarted.
