# WebAssembly

At the time of writing WebAssembly is sill new and is already gaining steam as
the next big player in web development. It has a massive amount of potential
to evolve and change the way applications are built and shipped.

## What is WebAssembly?

I'll never do as good as a job as
[Lin Clark's A Cartoon Intro to WebAssembly](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HktWin_LPf4),
but I'll try.

WebAssembly solves the problem to allow applications to be built for the
browser, written in languages other than Javascript. Javascript is much slower
and there are a lot of problems that can not be solved with it today.
WebAssembly is a low level assembly like language that is converted into a
binary format this allows applications to run, without installation and provide
native performance. It also works on Windows, Mac, Linux, iOS, Android, and
many others.

## The future of WebAssembly

WebAssembly is still new, for example today there is a lot of JS interop. As
data is passed around it's serialized / deserialized and causes some major
performance issues that in some cases doesn't make it practical to use. In the
future it will have more functionality such as direct DOM and Websocket
access.

## WASI

WASI or the WebAssembly System Interface is exciting since it brings
WebAssembly to the backend. This is exciting for a few reasons, every WASI
module runs in it's secure environment, interfaces allow for easy interop
between languages, and finally cold start times are nearly instantaneous.
Drastically quicker than Docker.
