# Component Library

Now that we know how to create components we would like to build something
that's more ascetically pleasing. But creating high quality complex user
interfaces from scratch is a big challenge. This is where a Component Library
can help. They establish the design language and as a developer we get to spend
less time thinking about this.

At this time there is not a feature complete component library for Yew. And out
of the handful of existing projects,
[patternfly-yew](https://github.com/ctron/patternfly-yew) is the only one
recently maintained.

## Patternfly

Patternfly is an open source design system to create consistent and usable
applications experiences. Patternfly provides clear standards and guidelines to
build efficiently. It was designed as a React component library, however there
is a community effort recreate the components on an as needed basis for Yew.

Given the current state of the Rust project, it would be best to start to get
to know the library though the React documentation.

Getting started with Patternfly is pretty straightforward, you'll get immediate
value from two primary sections. Components and Layouts.

## Components

Let's pull up the documentation for the
[Alert](https://www.patternfly.org/v4/components/alert) component.
These example pages contain several examples. The different examples show the
implementation of the component and different ways to use it.

You can take a look at the React code for each example. You can find the
`</> JS` button just below the example component. The examples may not show
all variations of the component. However, you can scroll down to the very
bottom of the page, where the props are contained. They will tell you about all
of the properties that control the look and behavior of the component.

They remaining [components](https://www.patternfly.org/v4/components) can be
found on the left navigation bar.

## Layouts

In Patternfly there are seven different layouts to help compose your web app.
We can briefly cover each of them and what they are good for. Be sure to check
out associated links to follow along with visual representations.

### Page

The [Page](patternfly.org/v4/components/page/design-guidelines) is technically
a component, but makes sense in the context of talking about page layouts. It
is used to define the basic layout of a page, with multiple option of page
navigation, and provide common elements like the masthead and page header.

#### Page Sections

The page sections, also described in the page guidelines, allows you to define
areas to group content. Depending on the size of the device the padding on the
sides will be automatically adjusted to attempt to fit the content.

### Stack

A [stack](patternfly.org/v4/layouts/stack) will position items vertically in a
container. Optionally one item can be used to fill the remaining space. All
children will be padded and centered adding a nice border. By default the
components are crammed together but can add spacing between with the optional
gutter.

### Split

[Split](patternfly.org/v4/layouts/split) is pretty much exactly the same as
stack, but horizontally. This one also has the option of wrapping the children
into an extra row if it doesn't fit the width of the screen. When viewing the
example adjust the width of the browser and you can see how the components
wrap.

### Grid

[Grid](patternfly.org/v4/layouts/grid) is allows you to layout content on a
fixed-size 12 column grid. This makes the behavior predictable and divisible by
1/2, 1/3, 1/4, 1/6 evenly. You can construct children of any size.

Grid does have a responsive ordering features, which allows you change which
order they appear based on the current window size.

### Gallery

Like Grid, the [Gallery](patternfly.org/v4/layouts/gallery) will use a grid
like layout this time evenly placing the children. The view is response, so
depending on the screen size you can adjust the sizing of the children.

### Level

[Level](patternfly.org/v4/layouts/level) evenly distributes the children
horizontally within a container.

### Bullseye

The [Bullseye](patternfly.org/v4/layouts/bullseye) will center the content both
horizontally and vertically.

### Flex

The [Flex](patternfly.org/v4/layouts/flex) layout allows you to build your own
custom layouts that give you the same look and feel as the other PatternFly
components and layouts. This enables developers to create a custom layout that
can have consistent spacing and change responsively with other PatternFly
layouts and components.

### Guidelines

The
[Design Guidelines](https://www.patternfly.org/v4/components/alert/design-guidelines)
exists for most component and layouts and will provide details what the expected
behaviors and how the user interacts with it. Many will also contain best
practices and how they should be used with the other Patternfly components.

### patternfly-rs

Let's look at the equivalent
[Rust Doc](https://ctron.github.io/patternfly-yew-quickstart/) and find the
`Alert` component. You can navigate to the components with the navigation bar
on the right. patternfly-rs uses the same CSS as the React library so the
components should look identical. Also like the upstream Patternfly
documentation, it should contain a snippet of code. Unlike the React
documentation, does not have as many examples and some of the content is
missing.

To see all of the components that have been completed, a better resource is
available on the
[Rust Docs](https://docs.rs/patternfly-yew/latest/patternfly_yew/index.html).

As your looking through the Rust Docs to help find the props, it may be best to
look at the source code after you pull up the component. As you find issues
with this documentation, as of now, PRs are welcome.

## Using patternfly-rs

patternfly-rs also includes a
[quickstart template](https://github.com/ctron/patternfly-yew) that ships with
the entire patternfly-rs documentation page. Normally from the github page you
click the use `Use this template` button, clone the repo and install everything
with npm.

But the Overengineered CLI can take care of this for us. We can do all of this
with a single command. You don't have to do this now but you can use the
following command, replacing `<name>` with the name of the project name. This
will clone the repository using the name as the name of the repo.

```rust,ignore
oecli pwa --new <name>
```

Just like our previous examples, run `trunk serve` and head to your browser to
check it out.

**Note**: `pwa` here stands for Progressive Web App. Progressive web apps are
apps that load a skeleton and hydrate components as they are ready. At this
current state, Overengineered does not offer server side rendering, or this
progressive hydration. These are goals further down the road map.
