# Preface

Before we get begin I wanted to give you a little background on Overengineered
and some of the original problems I set out to solve. Hopefully this will help
set the direction and tone of this book.

First, why Overengineered and what does the name mean? We'll it embodies the
spirit of _"I'll spend four hours automating this task that only takes me five
minutes to complete."_ I mean, I started this effort to help out a friend with
a problem with his small business... and now I'm writing a book. Now what
defines our platform and vision is a little more complicated. It mainly
derives from things inspired throughout my career.

I've worked within a large tech company for the last ten years solving
problems of various scale. My strength has always been solving problems that
drastically increase operational and development efficiency. Working in a
company like this we're often highly well tuned engines. Software engineering,
data science, data engineering, production engineering, user research,
language, content design, and many others all working to identify and tackle
these operational scale problems. We prioritize and eliminate cognitive and
physical manual work. This essentially allows entire organizations to operation
with minimal budget increases year over year as the number of end users within
their products scale to billions of users.

This have given me an interesting perspective on the product and services that
are available to us today and all the areas of opportunity where we are not
even scratching the surface. However applying this same discipline to my
personal projects, where I attempt to have direct impact in my day to day is a
challenge. The scope of solving some of these problems is substantial. It's
unfortunate that I have not come across a solution to having all the readily
building blocks to solve some of these problems without burning a significant
amount of calories planning, budgeting materials, setting up my infrastructure,
writing the glue code between services or devices.

Don't get me wrong, existing solutions exist but all now require a cloud
service, which has it's advantages, but the current trend is moving toward
decentralization.

This decentralization effort is the other driving factors that influence's the
direction of Overengineered. To me, the reason behind this seems to be trust.
People want their data secure, protected, private, and available. The industry
seems to be leaning toward blockchain as an attempt to solve these problems. It
is a great tool and has a purpose, but in my opinion is to expensive and slow
to be used everywhere.

So, I asked myself, why not bring the cloud infrastructure home? Make it as
easy as Installing an operating system. Adding a new computer or device is as
easy as scanning a QR code. This is prefect for processing sensitive and
private data such as facial recognition on security cameras. As well as
tracking individuals throughout the house to apply individualized home
automation and contextual interaction with IoT devices.

If we are hosting our own trusted infrastructure, we still want to be able to
create interconnected and social experiences. This is where we can build a data
service and abstraction layer, including public registry support to download
and managing data schemas.

Progressive web apps can connect to any one or more hosted data service and in
the event the server does not have the required dependencies, they can be
fetched from one of the available registries. This public and transparent data
model approach has the added benefit of creating a large data graph. Other
abstractions can be made on top to provide a federated learning platform.

Not only could this enrich the value of user data to something beyond whats
easily attainable today. But gives the true owner of the data power and the
ability to monetize their own anonymized data in a safe and secure manor.

This defines our north stars or what I hope to achieve. This is a long term
vision and much of this will inevitably change. Thank you for reading, and
enjoy. :)

-- Sean O'Rourke
